---
pubDate: 2019-05-15
author: "Brennan Pollock"
title: "Deserts of First-Century Palestine"
description: "a reflection on incarnational philosophy"
image:
  url: "https://plus.unsplash.com/premium_photo-1675705721263-0bbeec261c49?w=800&auto=format&fit=crop&q=60&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxzZWFyY2h8NXx8ZGVzZXJ0fGVufDB8fDB8fHww"
  alt: "#"
tags: ["Reflection"]
---

One gets lost in the deserts of first-century Palestine. Can you smell the salt-soaked air blowing eastward off of the Mediterranean coast? My God, these travels implore me to squeak out a pent-up exclamation of stillness found in an ancient brotherhood and sisterhood, for both men and women were of the utmost importance to the one I call Christ. There beside the cacti I sit and rest for some two hours, drinking the cistern of water that was given to me by a kindly yet strange man in the village adjacent to my temple. As I felt the water travel down my throat I thought this thought as a torch in the wind:

There is no demarcation between the flesh of the present and the flesh of the past. Flesh is all encompassing of the concepts of space and time. In it is life (birth) and death (cemented birth), for in each body there is the image of what we conceptualize and respond to as Thou or God or Lord or YHWH. This image is the eternal image, the image of lucid mystery which is clearly seen only in the dance with the cosmos, the dance with God, the dance with the living God incarnate, in this case, the Son Jesus Christ. So then is there any demarcation at all to be identified by modern man? How is it to say that a great Greek poet, Sophocles, is conceptualized the same in my consciousness today as would be by one of his dearest friends in the town square? 

All is in the matter. There is no spirit outside of the matter. Spirit is not an illusion though, some ghost of humanities barbaric past, it is the source of remembrance and recognition, those modes of contemplation that ground all subsequent forms of reasoning (deductive and inductive alike). Spirit is embodied or rather "incarnated" in flesh. As our Lord said so coyly: "the kingdom of God is at hand, or within you." In this system Marx and Mary will share the Lord's supper while Christ dissolves into his beloved dinner mates, no longer in bread and wine but in self, in a communal recognition of what must be done without hesitation. This is the incarnational philosophy I intend to compose. For it will not give credence to mere disinterested speculation but indeed will be emancipatory or as my dear ancestor Horkheimer would call it "critical".